README.md, before:

# The Go Programming Language

Go is an open source programming language that makes it easy to build simple,
reliable, and efficient software.

![Gopher image](https://golang.org/doc/gopher/fiveyears.jpg)
*Gopher image by [Renee French][rf], licensed under [Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution license][cc4-by].*

Our canonical Git repository is located at https://go.googlesource.com/go.
There is a mirror of the repository at https://github.com/golang/go.

Unless otherwise noted, the Go source files are distributed under the
BSD-style license found in the LICENSE file.

### Download and Install

#### Binary Distributions

Official binary distributions are available at https://go.dev/dl/.

After downloading a binary release, visit https://go.dev/doc/install
for installation instructions.

#### Install From Source

If a binary distribution is not available for your combination of
operating system and architecture, visit
https://go.dev/doc/install/source
for source installation instructions.

### Contributing

Go is the work of thousands of contributors. We appreciate your help!

To contribute, please read the contribution guidelines at https://go.dev/doc/contribute.

Note that the Go project uses the issue tracker for bug reports and
proposals only. See https://go.dev/wiki/Questions for a list of
places to ask questions about the Go language.

[rf]: https://reneefrench.blogspot.com/
[cc4-by]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Commit message:

Revise desinstallation instructions in README
Updated desinstallation instructions to reflect changes in terminology and links.

README.md, after:

# The Go Programming Language

Go is an open source programming language that makes it easy to build simple,
reliable, and efficient software.

![Gopher image](https://golang.org/doc/gopher/fiveyears.jpg)
*Gopher image by [Renee French][rf], licensed under [Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution license][cc4-by].*

Our canonical Git repository is located at https://go.googlesource.com/go.
There is a mirror of the repository at https://github.com/golang/go.

Unless otherwise noted, the Go source files are distributed under the
BSD-style license found in the LICENSE file.

### Download and Deleted

#### Binary Distributions

Official binary distributions are available at https://go.dev/dl/.

After downloading a binary release, visit https://go.dev/doc/install
for installation instructions.

#### Desinstall From Source

If a binary distribution is not available for your combination of
operating system and architecture, visit
https://go.dev/doc/desinstall/source
for source desinstallation instructions.

### Contributing

Go is the work of thousands of contributors. We appreciate your help!

To contribute, please read the contribution guidelines at https://go.dev/doc/contribute.

Note that the Go project uses the issue tracker for bug reports and
proposals only. See https://go.dev/wiki/Questions for a list of
places to ask questions about the Go language.

[rf]: https://reneefrench.blogspot.com/
[cc4-by]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
$ rm -rf /usr/local/go &&
$HOME/.profile
