doc/README.md, before:

# Release Notes

The `initial` and `next` subdirectories of this directory are for release notes.

At the start of a release development cycle, the contents of `next` should be deleted
and replaced with those of `initial`.
Release notes should be added to `next` by editing existing files or creating new files.

To prepare the release notes for a release, run `golang.org/x/build/cmd/relnote generate`.
That will merge the `.md` files in `next` into a single file.

The files are merged by being concatenated in sorted order by pathname. Files in
the directory matching the glob "*stdlib/*minor" are treated specially. They should
be in subdirectories corresponding to standard library package paths, and headings
for those package paths will be generated automatically.

Files in this repo's `api/next` directory must have corresponding files in `*stdlib/*minor`.
The files should be in the subdirectory for the package with the new API, and should
be named after the issue number of the API proposal. For example, for an api/next
file with the line

    pkg net/http, function F #12345

there should be a file named net/http/12345.md.
At a minimum, that file should contain either a full sentence or a TODO,
ideally referring to a person with the responsibility to complete the note.

Commit message:

doc/next: initial contents
Initialize the doc/next directory for the next release by copying the
contents of doc/initial into it.

Also, rewrite doc/README.md to add release instructions and to separate
information for developers from information for the release team.

Change-Id: Ie1e5c2ddae7a8d301e9b2f8a68925519648aa84d
Reviewed-on: https://go-review.googlesource.com/c/go/+/557535
LUCI-TryBot-Result: Go LUCI <golang-scoped@luci-project-accounts.iam.gserviceaccount.com>
Reviewed-by: Dmitri Shuralyov <dmitshur@golang.org>
Reviewed-by: Dmitri Shuralyov <dmitshur@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Jonathan Amsterdam <jba@google.com>

doc/README.md, after:

# Release Notes

The `initial` and `next` subdirectories of this directory are for release notes.

## For developers

Release notes should be added to `next` by editing existing files or creating new files.

At the end of the development cycle, the files will be merged by being
concatenated in sorted order by pathname. Files in the directory matching the
glob "*stdlib/*minor" are treated specially. They should be in subdirectories
corresponding to standard library package paths, and headings for those package
paths will be generated automatically.

Files in this repo's `api/next` directory must have corresponding files in
`*stdlib/*minor`. The files should be in the subdirectory for the package with
the new API, and should be named after the issue number of the API proposal. For
example, an `api/next` file with the line

    pkg net/http, function F #12345

should have a corresponding file named `net/http/12345.md`.
At a minimum, that file should contain either a full sentence or a TODO,
ideally referring to a person with the responsibility to complete the note.

## For the release team

At the start of a release development cycle, the contents of `next` should be deleted
and replaced with those of `initial`. From the repo root:

    > cd doc
    > rm -r next/*
    > cp -r initial/* next

Then edit `next/1-intro.md` to refer to the next version.

To prepare the release notes for a release, run `golang.org/x/build/cmd/relnote generate`.
That will merge the `.md` files in `next` into a single file.
