src/crypto/internal/boring/README.md, before:

We have been working inside Google on a fork of Go that uses
BoringCrypto (the core of [BoringSSL](https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl/))
for various crypto primitives, in furtherance of some work related to FIPS 140.
We have heard that some external users of Go would be
interested in this code as well, so we have published this code
here in the main Go repository behind the setting GOEXPERIMENT=boringcrypto.

Use of GOEXPERIMENT=boringcrypto outside Google is _unsupported_.
This mode is not part of the [Go 1 compatibility rules](https://go.dev/doc/go1compat),
and it may change incompatibly or break in other ways at any time.

To be clear, we are not making any statements or representations about
the suitability of this code in relation to the FIPS 140 standard.
Interested users will have to evaluate for themselves whether the code
is useful for their own purposes.

---

This directory holds the core of the BoringCrypto implementation
as well as the build scripts for the module itself: syso/*.syso.

syso/goboringcrypto_linux_amd64.syso is built with:

	GOARCH=amd64 ./build.sh

syso/goboringcrypto_linux_arm64.syso is built with:

	GOARCH=arm64 ./build.sh

Both run on an x86 Debian Linux system using Docker.
For the arm64 build to run on an x86 system, you need

	apt-get install qemu-user-static qemu-binfmt-support

to allow the x86 kernel to run arm64 binaries via QEMU.

See build.sh for more details about the build.

Commit message:

[release-branch.go1.20] crypto/internal/boring: upgrade module to fips-20220613
Also, add EVP_aead_aes_*_gcm_tls13 to the build, which we will need in a
following CL, to avoid rebuilding the syso twice.

Updates #64717
Updates #62372
Updates #64718

Change-Id: Ie4d853ad9b914c1095cad60694a1ae6f77dc22ce
Cq-Include-Trybots: luci.golang.try:go1.20-linux-amd64-boringcrypto
Reviewed-on: https://go-review.googlesource.com/c/go/+/549695
Reviewed-by: Than McIntosh <thanm@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Roland Shoemaker <roland@golang.org>
Reviewed-on: https://go-review.googlesource.com/c/go/+/553875
Auto-Submit: Matthew Dempsky <mdempsky@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Matthew Dempsky <mdempsky@google.com>
LUCI-TryBot-Result: Go LUCI <golang-scoped@luci-project-accounts.iam.gserviceaccount.com>

src/crypto/internal/boring/README.md, after:

We have been working inside Google on a fork of Go that uses
BoringCrypto (the core of [BoringSSL](https://boringssl.googlesource.com/boringssl/))
for various crypto primitives, in furtherance of some work related to FIPS 140.
We have heard that some external users of Go would be
interested in this code as well, so we have published this code
here in the main Go repository behind the setting GOEXPERIMENT=boringcrypto.

Use of GOEXPERIMENT=boringcrypto outside Google is _unsupported_.
This mode is not part of the [Go 1 compatibility rules](https://go.dev/doc/go1compat),
and it may change incompatibly or break in other ways at any time.

To be clear, we are not making any statements or representations about
the suitability of this code in relation to the FIPS 140 standard.
Interested users will have to evaluate for themselves whether the code
is useful for their own purposes.

---

This directory holds the core of the BoringCrypto implementation
as well as the build scripts for the module itself: syso/*.syso.

syso/goboringcrypto_linux_amd64.syso is built with:

	GOARCH=amd64 ./build.sh

syso/goboringcrypto_linux_arm64.syso is built with:

	GOARCH=arm64 ./build.sh

Both run using Docker.

For the arm64 build to run on an x86 system, you need

	apt-get install qemu-user-static qemu-binfmt-support

to allow the x86 kernel to run arm64 binaries via QEMU.

For the amd64 build to run on an Apple Silicon macOS, you need Rosetta 2.

See build.sh for more details about the build.
